Korora was born out of a desire to make Linux easier for new users,
while still being useful for experts.

Originally based on Gentoo Linux in 2005, Korora was re-born in
2010 as a Fedora Remix1 with tweaks and extras to make the system
“just work” out of the box.

Why Fedora? Lots of reasons!

Comparison to Fedora
Korora is a Fedora Remix, meaning it ships packages from the
default Fedora repositories but also a number of other packages
(often ones that Fedora cannot ship directly). We also make changes
to the default system, whereas Fedora generally sticks to upstream.
For new users, Fedora can be tricky because it doesn't include many
of the extras that users often need, things like media codecs and
some proprietary software. This is one area where Korora can help.

Ultimately, we want people just like you to become useful members
of the Fedora community and we hope that trying Korora will be a
catalyst for this.

For a detailed look at how Korora differs to Fedora, see What's
Inside.

Desktops
Korora comes in a few installable versions which include the
Cinnamon, GNOME, KDE, MATE and Xfce desktops.

Cinnamon
 Korora Cinnamon
GNOME
 Korora Gnome
KDE
 Korora KDE
MATE
 Korora MATE
Xfce
 Korora Xfce
Default applications
Korora sets the default applications to those that we believe end
users typically want. For example, Firefox is the default web
browser (instead of Konqueror in KDE and Epiphany in GNOME, for
example) and VLC is the default media player (instead of Dragon
Player in KDE and Totem in GNOME, for example). There is generally
one popular program installed for each task, although alternatives
(such as the Google Chrome web browser) are available via the
package manager for a quick install.

We have a license to distribute Adobe Flash so this is now included
by default.

Package repositories
Korora also pre-configures a number of third party repositories,
making it easier to install the additional software that most
people use. These include:

Adobe Flash
DropBox
Google Chrome, Google Earth and Google Talkplugin
RPMFusion
VirtualBox
This means that more software which is not normally available on
Fedora is available to install out of the box on Korora.

Third party driver support
Korora includes a tool called Pharlap (Jockey in release 19 and
earlier) for simple installation of third party drivers such as
those for NVIDIA graphics cards and certain wireless devices.

Korora also comes with all the development tools and kernel headers
you need to easily install out of tree kernel modules, such as
those required by VirtualBox. These modules are automatically built
when you get a new kernel update thanks to Dynamic Kernel Module
Support.

Goals
Korora hopes to provide a complete, easy to use system for general
computing which is assisted by the following:

Support for as much hardware as possible
End user desired applications as defaults (e.g. Firefox over
Konqueror)
Ability to play all media out of the box using free software,
wherever possible
Target specific applications for tasks with as little bloat as
possible
Provide simple means to get support
Provide guides on how to use the system
Build a little community of happy Linux users
1 Korora is not provided or supported by the Fedora Project.
Official, unmodified Fedora software is available through the
Fedora Project website.