About. Why Fedora?
You might be wondering, "why is Korora derived from Fedora?"

Perhaps you have used Fedora in the past yourself and been burnt,
or perhaps you can't stand Yum, Fedora's package manager. Perhaps
you even hate RPMs? Well, we understand!

Let us also say, that we think you should give Fedora another
chance (like we did), or at least continue reading this page.

All distros are different and they have different goals. However,
we're drawn to Fedora for several reasons including the fact that
at its heart, Fedora is about building a community of contributors,
not just consumers.


Relationship with Red Hat
Fedora is a community operating system, whose major commercial
sponsor is Red Hat. Many Red Hat engineers work on free software
projects (see Upstream below) and Fedora provides a platform to
push those changes to a large audience. While there is a small team
of Red Hat engineers dedicated to working on Fedora, it remains
primarily a community driven project.

Values
Fedora has a great set of values, which embody the very heart of
the community; Freedom, Friends, Features, First. A central goal
for Fedora is advancing free software and content freedom, which
benefits the whole World.

In particular, we admire Fedora's strong support of freedom. This
means that they do not ship (nor support) proprietary software, but
naturally prefer (and create where necessary) free software
alternatives. For example, instead of building tools to help
install NVIDIA drivers, Fedora invested in Nouveau, the free 3D
driver for NVIDIA cards. This not only keeps Fedora free to
re-distribute, but it benefits the whole Linux community. That's
extremely admirable, in our opinion.

That's not to say that you can't get the NVIDIA drivers, or other
proprietary software for your system. Various third party
repositories, such as RPMFusion, exist for this very purpose (and
of course, Korora configures all this for you out of the box!).

Package Management
Yum (and RPM) have made leaps and bounds over the last few years
and you might actually enjoy using it now (and it's quite fast!).
Having said that, most package commands are run through PackageKit
these days thanks to graphical package managers. As for RPMs
themselves, they're just a binary package format like Debs  it's
the package manager that makes the difference.

Download an RPM from the net and you can install it with Yum (or
via the GUI using PackageKit), which will automatically pull in any
dependencies for you. You rarely use the rpm command, just like in
Debian and Ubuntu you rarely use dpkg. The days of "RPM hell" are
long gone.

Fedora also has a wonderful addition, called groups. After some
educational software, office programs, or support for your
language? It's easy, just install the group you need, like so:

$ sudo yum groupinstall "Educational Software"
If you're a developer, getting started with Fedora is easy. Just
install the development group you need, such as GNOME, KDE, Java,
Kernel, Perl, or even the Web.

$ sudo yum groupinstall "Development Tools"
There are almost 200 groups, ready to make your life easier!

Fedora also has several contributor repositories available for end
users, which is sort-of similar to Ubuntu's PPA (Personal Package
Archive). However, Fedora often provides updates for major packages
anyway, so you don't actually need to add a separate repository to
get the latest version of things like KDE.

If that's still not enough, you can also install Debian's Apt
package manager and other graphical front-ends like Synaptic in
Fedora!

Updates
Similar to other non-rolling release distros, Fedora generally only
applies bug fixes to a stable release, rather than introducing new
features with later versions.

Having said that though, Fedora does often provide major updates to
some specific software. In general, packages like Firefox,
LibreOffice, KDE, and the Linux kernel itself get major updates.
So, with Fedora you are not left behind quite as much, nor having
to add repositories for unofficial builds. We like that.

Innovation
With every new release, Fedora is often leading the charge to
implement new free software technologies. In fact, Fedora's primary
sponsor Red Hat is responsible for some great desktop enhancements,
including AIGLX (Accelerated Indirect GLX), D-Bus, DeviceKit, HAL,
NetworkManager, Ogg Theora, and PolicyKit. Even the Wayland display
server was started by Kristian Høgsberg when he was working for Red
Hat (he's now at Intel).

Not to mention that out of all the vendors, Red Hat contributes the
most to the Linux kernel and to X.Org. Red Hat is also the biggest
contributor to GNOME (including GNOME Shell) and they also provide
infrastructure, hosting and bandwidth for the project.

Kudos.

Upstream
Fedora works as closely to upstream as possible. They don't often
go off on their own tangent with disregard for upstream projects.
If they want to have something changed, they work with upstream to
create fixes and introduce new features which benefits everyone.

Take the Chromium web browser for example. It's not included in
Fedora for several reasons, but Fedora people are working with
Google to fix these issues, so that it can be included nicely. By
doing this, other distros will benefit!

Having said that, there are Chromium builds available too. Just add
the repository and away you go!

Working upstream provides many great benefits to Fedora and
ultimately makes it a more stable system because the fixes are
shared with everyone.

Security
Many used to wonder at the usefulness of SELinux (Security Enhanced
Linux). After all, this is Linux right? It's secure enough.

That might be true, but SELinux is still extremely useful (and even
Debian is now busy implementing SELinux).

SELinux works by protecting your system, even if there is an
exploit available in an application which gives users root access.
Take Apache for example. In a non-SELinux enabled system, if a user
gains root through an exploit in Apache they will have full access
to your machine. Not so with SELinux. Even if someone gains root
access, there are rules around what Apache can and can't do. For
example, these might be restricting it to only reading the
directory which holds websites. Your system is compromised, but the
damage is limited.

SELinux is not just useful for servers. It's also valuable to your
desktop system, especially if you use Adobe's proprietary flash
player (which is known to have lots of security holes). When Fedora
first implemented SELinux, there were lots of issues because it
would block the system from doing what were considered normal
tasks. These growing pains are now over, and SELinux rarely gets in
the way. Even if it does, the graphical tool which pops up will
tell you how to change that particular behaviour (if you really
want to).

Of course, at the end of the day you can still turn SELinux off (or
just to warning mode). Korora leaves it enabled as it's a great way
to add extra security to your system, especially as a major part of
our lives are now lived on the Internet.

Tools
Fedora comes with lots of handy graphical tools to help you manage
your system, including:

 authentication
 firewall
 language settings
 network shares
 services
 users
 web server
And many more..

Reliability
In the last few years we've been solely using Fedora and have been
super impressed with its reliability. Things just work, as you
would expect them to. No weirdness. Even though Fedora provides
major updates to many packages, it's still more reliable than other
popular distributions we've used. Perhaps this is due to sticking
close to upstream.

Summary
Fedora is truly a great, free operating system. Its core principles
are ones that we fully support, but which we recognise might
restrict or turn away some users. This is why we chose to re-launch
Korora in its new form, so that users don't give up on Fedora
before they have a chance to love it. We see great potential in
Fedora and great benefit to those who are using it.

Thanks to their wonderful build tools like livecd-creator, we are
able to create a powerful operating system that includes all the
tweaks and extras that users want out of the box.